# OPA-Elasticsearch Data Filtering Example

This directory contains an example of how to perform data filtering in
Elasticsearch using the queries provided by OPA's Compile API.

The example server is written in Go and when it receives API requests it asks
OPA for a set of conditions to apply to the Elasticsearch query that serves
the request. OPA is integrated as a library.

## Building

Build the example by running `make build`

## Running the example

1. Run Elasticsearch. See Elasticsearch's [Installation](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/install-elasticsearch.html) to get started.

2. Open a new window and start the example server:

   ```bash
   ./opa-es-filtering
   ```

   The server listens on `:8080` and exposes two endpoints `/posts` and `/posts/{post_id}`. OPA is loaded with an example policy from the file `example.rego` which has rules related to both these
   endpoints.

3. Open a new window and make a request:

   ```bash
   curl  -H "Authorization: bob" localhost:8080/posts |  jq .
   ```

   This will return all the posts that `bob` is allowed to see depending on the policy loaded into OPA. All policies are defined in the `example.rego` file.

## Supported OPA Built-in Functions

### Comparison

- [x] ==
- [x] !=
- [x] <
- [x] <=
- [x] >
- [x] >=

### Strings

- [x] contains

### Regex

- [x] re_match

## Support for OPA references

References are used to access nested documents in OPA. OPA policies can be written over deeply nested structures which the server would then translate to Elasticsearch `Nested` queries.

## Generated Elasticsearch queries

For the OPA operators mentioned above, following are Elasticsearch queries generated by the server:

### Term level Queries

- Term Query
- Range Query
- Regexp Query

### Joining Queries

- Nested Query

### Compound Queries

- Bool Query

### Full Text Queries

- Match Query
- Query String Query

## Limitations

- The server is loaded with an Elasticsearch `Index` template which defines the settings and the mapping for the `posts` index which is also created when the server starts.

- The OPA policies should be written according to the fields in the Elasticsearch documents to get the desired results. The manner in which Elasticsearch handles unmapped fields depends on the type of query. For example, a Term query returns no matches if the query refers to a `term` that doesn't point to an object field in the mapping. On the other hand, a Nested query will fail if the defined `path` doesn't point to an object field in the mapping. **To obtain uniform behaviour across queries such that an unmapped `path` in a Nested query does not throw an exception and instead not match any documents for this query, the server generates Nested queries that ignore an unmapped path.**

- The server supports limited OPA operators and returns an error if the OPA policy contains an unsupported operator.

- The server supports only two endpoints `/posts` and `/posts/{post_id}` for fetching posts created when the server starts.